I am going to teach you github completely in this repo

There are many commands in github , we will try to see all commands and their working


1 clone from github to vscode
   
   1 create a folder with same name as github repo 
   2 open the folder 
   3 get the path from repository 
   --git clone (path or link from github)
   eg git clone https://github.com/priya-32/Vs-Git.git

2 from vscode to github

- create a folder and file in laptop
- and then create a repo with same name in github
--run this command in terminal
   i) git init command is used to initialize a new Git repository in your project directory.
       It sets up the necessary files and structures for Git to track changes in your project.
       (creates a git folder) acts as an intermediate
       command :
       git init 
   ii) git remote add origin (path or link from github)
       command : 
       git remote add origin https://github.com/priya-32/Vs-Git.git
   iii) Add all files to the staging area:
       command : 
       git add . (add files to staging area)
   iv) git commit -m "Initial commit" 
         i) git commit:
            This saves the changes you have staged (using git add) into the repository's history.
        ii) -m "Initial commit":
            The -m flag specifies a commit message in quotes.
            In this case, "Initial commit" is a descriptive message indicating that this is the first commit of the project.
   v) Create a main branch (or master if needed):
      command :
       git branch -M main

   vi) Push the commit to a remote repository:
        command  :
        git push -u origin main


        full commands 
        git init
        git remote add origin https://github.com/priya-32/Github-Commands.git
        git add .
        git commit -m "Inital commit"
        git branch -M main
        git push origin main

3 whenever you do changes in the vs code use this cmds to push it to the github repo

    Insert -> Add -> Commit -> Push
   
   have to do this all for inserting ,deleting or updating

   git add .
   git commit -m ""
   git push origin main 

4 add updated changes from github to vs code
 git pull

5 Status
To see the current status of the working directory and staging are in a git repository 
 
  -- helps to see which files have been modified , added or untracked
 git status

 6 Branch
Branches are used to manage different versions of your project simultaneously. 
They are a way to isolate your work, allowing you to develop features, fix bugs, 
or experiment with new ideas without affecting the main codebase.

  i) To see all the braches 

   git branch -a

  ii) To change the branch 

   git checkout branch-name
   eg git checkout master

  iii) To create a new branch
  git branch branch_name
  eg  git branch master

  iv) To push it 
  git add .
  git commit -m "Added a new branch"
  git push --set-upstream origin gitbranch1 (or)
  git push origin branch_name

  v)To see the current branch
  git branch


  7 add updated changes from github to vs code
     git pull

  8 pull 
  if we want to pull from github we have to use
  git pull origin branch_name
  eg git pull origin main

  9 To merge from one branch to another

       git merge branch_name
        eg git merge branch1 


        ---------------------------------